>   **SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#1 – Introduction to Testing and Defect Tracking**

| Group: Group 3      |
|-----------------|
| Aryan Taneja                |   
| Tsenguun Ulambayar              |   
| Saman Hosseini               |      


**Table of Contents**

(When you finish writing, update the following list using right click, then
“Update Field”)

[1 Introduction	1](#_Toc439194677)

[2 High-level description of the exploratory testing plan	1](#_Toc439194678)

[3 Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing	1](#_Toc439194679)

[4 Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports	1](#_Toc439194680)

[5 How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was
divided	1](#_Toc439194681)

[6 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons
learned	1](#_Toc439194682)

[7 Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself	1](#_Toc439194683)

# Introduction

The purpose of this lab is to become more familiar and gain practical experience with software testing, specifically with the concepts of exploratory testing, manual scripted testing, and regression testing. From completing this assignment, we will be able to note the differences between these three types of testing. This lab also involves the use of industrial defect tracking systems, processes, and practices. The system under test (SUT) is an ATM simulation system. 

Exploratory testing gives the tester more freedom and allows them to plan and execute the tests at the same time. There are no formal instructions to follow, and it is up to the tester to create variations in their inputs and approaches to test different aspects of the system. Manual function testing is scripted, meaning the tests will be designed ahead of time and given to the tester to execute. With a script, you would test the same things in every iteration which can be limiting.


# High-level description of the exploratory testing plan

We will test the ATM’s main functionalities which is to withdraw, deposit, transfer, or show the balance on an account. To begin, we will input valid card information into the ATM. To test the system’s ability to withdraw money, we will do a balance inquiry, select an amount to withdraw, and do another balance inquiry to see the result of the withdrawal. We will repeat this process with multiple inputs (withdrawal amount selections) and see if the balance inquiry returns the expected amounts. To test the deposit functionality, we would perform a similar process where we’d check the balance, deposit money, and check the balance again. We would do this for a variation of inputs, from 0.01 and increasing gradually to larger 3-digit amounts. In addition, we’d also try failing to insert the envelope within the time limit to test the deposit cancelation functionality. We will test transfers using the same technique of checking the balance before and after the transaction, and we will test transfers to and from different accounts. 

# Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing

The main difference between exploratory and manual functional testing was the level of freedom we had as testers. The benefit of exploratory testing was that we could plan our next test based on the result of our previous one which allowed us to dig deeper into certain bugs. The difficulty with exploratory testing was keeping track of the scenarios we were exploring since the results from a test would sometimes change our course of action. Manual functional testing was more straightforward since we had specific test cases to test, but it was much more limiting as we could only test certain things. The benefit, however, was that it is more organized and  allowed us to test the smaller details of the system that we didn’t focus on when we were doing exploratory testing, where we were more focused on testing the system according to scenarios. Exploratory testing allows the tester to test the functionalities involved in the most common and important use case scenarios of the system, which could make it more efficient than manual functional testing. Manual functional testing, on the other hand, could be more thorough.

# Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports

There wasn’t anything for the reviewer to change or dispute about the defect reports. 

# How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was divided 

Our team has 3 members since one member left. One team member executed the tests, a second team member wrote down the defects, and the third team member reported them in the bug tracking tool (Jira). After all tests were executed, one member wrote the bug report and we worked on the lab report together.

# Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned

It was difficult to get acquainted with Jira and learn how to write bug reports. It was a challenge to maintain organization and structure when doing exploratory testing. A lesson for next time would be to dedicate more time to reading the lab instructions beforehand, as the lab instructions took longer to get through than expected.

# Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself

It would have been helpful to have gotten examples of bug reports or some more detailed instructions writing them since we’d never written them before.
